
PUFF PASTE

(Pasta sfoglia)

The =Pasta sfoglia= is not too difficult to make and if the following
instructions are carefully followed, this fine and light paste can
easily be prepared. It is well to have a marble slab to roll it on but
this is not absolutely necessary. A warm, damp day is not favorable for
the making of the =Pasta sfoglia=, which succeeds better when the
weather is cold and dry.

Mix half a pound of flour of the very best quality with a piece of
butter as big as a walnut, some warm, but not hot water, enough salt and
a teaspoonful of good brandy. When the paste is formed knead it well for
about half an hour, first with the hands, then throwing it repeatedly
with force against the bread board. Make a cake of a rectangular form,
wrap it in cloth and let it rest for a while. Meanwhile work with the
hand 1/2 lb. of butter that has been kept previously on ice or, better,
in a bowl of ice-water, until it becomes smooth and flexible, then make
of it a little cake like that of the paste and throw it in a bowl of
cold water. When the dough has rested take the butter from the water,
wipe it with a cloth and dip it in flour.

Roll the paste only as long as it is necessary to enclose within the
cake of butter. This is placed in the middle and the edges of the sheet
of paste are drawn over it, closing well with fingers moistened in a
little water so that no air remains inside. Then begin to flatten, first
with the hands, then with the rolling pin, making the sheet as thin as
possible, but taking care that the butter does not come out. If this
happens throw at once a little flour where the butter appears and always
have the marble slab (or bread board) and the rolling pin sprinkled with
flour. Fold it over, making three even layers of paste, and again roll
the folded strip, repeating the operation six times and letting the
paste rest from time to time for a few minutes. At the last time, fold
it in two and reduce it to the necessary thickness that is, about one
third of an inch. After each folding press the edges gently with the
rolling pin to shut in the air, and turn the paste so as to roll in a
different direction.

When the paste has had six turns cut it into the desired forms and put
on ice, or in a cold place for twenty to thirty minutes before putting
it on the oven, which must be very hot, with the greatest heat at the
bottom.

The puff paste is used for pat√© shells and vol-au-vent cake and for
light pastries of all kinds.


