
MEAT STUFFING FOR VOL-AU-VENT

(Ripieno di carne per pasticcini di pasta sfoglia)

This stuffing can be made either with stewed veal or chicken giblets or
sweetbreads. The latter are preferable, being more delicate and a taste
of truffles greatly improves the stuffing. If sweetbreads are used, put
them on the fire with a piece of butter and season with salt and pepper.
When they have begun to take color, complete the cooking with some brown
stock, then cut them in pieces as little as a bean. Add one or two
spoons of =Balsamella= (see No. 54) a little tongue, one or two slices
of ham cut in little squares, a pinch of grated cheese and a taste of
nutmeg, seeing that the ingredients are in such quantities as to make
the mixture tasty and delicate. Leave it cool well, as in this way it
hardens and can be worked better.

In order to enclose it in paté shells made with puff-paste (see No. 57)
there are two ways. One is to cook the shells filled with the stuffing,
the other to fill them after they are cooked. In the first case put the
stuffing in the prepared disk of paste, moisten the edge with a wet
finger, cover with another disk of paste and cook. In the second case,
which is more convenient because the shells can be prepared one day
before, the two disks are put together without the stuffing, but in the
upper disk a circular cut must be made as large as a half dollar coin.
The paté on cooking swells and leaves an empty space in the interior.
Lifting with the point of a knife the little circle above, which has the
form of a cover, the interior space can be made larger, filled with the
stuffing and covered with the little cover. In this way it is enough to
warm them before sending to the table. The puff-paste must always be
glazed with the yolk of eggs.

If a large vol-au-vent is to be filled instead of little paté-shells, a
ragout of chicken giblets and sweetbread, cut in large pieces, is
better.


